---
title: "Landing Gear"
weight: 7
description:
  "This page will guide you through the process of drilling and installing your landing
  gear"
---

## Landing Gear Drilling and Mounting

{{% alert title="Note" color="note" %}} To proceed with this step you must have 3D
printed the landing gear brace and foot (x4). {{% /alert %}}

Your AVR kit ships with 4 x 9" aluminum rods that are used for landing gear. As you get
further into the advanced part of the build you can shorten these rods with a metal
hacksaw. Customization is largely dependent on what accessories you have mounted to your
drone.

![3D printed parts and aluminum rods for landing gear](landing_gear_drilling_1.jpg)

Attaching the aluminum rods to the landing gear mounts will require drilling holes in
each rod. We will walk through this process in detail to ensure success and minimize
frustration. You will need a drill, 1/16" bit, 1/8" bit, screw (or nail), and a Sharpie.

![Tools necessary for drilling aluminum rod](landing_gear_drilling_2.jpg)

The first thing you will need to do is place an aluminum rod into the landing gear mount
as shown below. In most cases this will be a tight fit so we recommend using a bit of
force and rotating the rod clockwise and counterclockwise. This will cause some of the
plastic from inside the mount to wear away.

![Placing the aluminum rod into the mount](landing_gear_drilling_3.jpg)

In the photo below you can see some of the plastic shaved off inside the mount.

![](landing_gear_drilling_4.jpg)

Repeat this process until the rod is flush with the bottom of the mount.

{{% alert title="Warning" color="warning" %}} Use caution as you rotate the rod into the
mount. Only use a force perpendicular to the mount. You don't want to run the risk of
cracking the mount and having to print and install a new one. {{% /alert %}}

{{% alert title="Tip" color="tip" %}} If you find this process cumbersome you can try to
use a 3/8" drill bit to hollow out the mount. Once again, use caution to prevent the
mount from cracking. {{% /alert %}}

![Landing gear mount with rod inserted](landing_gear_drilling_5.jpg)

Use a Sharpie to mark a hole on one side of the rod. Do not mark both sides. **There is
little margin for error so we will drill one side and repeat this process for the
other.**

![Marking a hole for drilling](landing_gear_drilling_6.jpg)

It can be challenging to accurately drill a hole in the aluminum rod. Clamp the rod to a
piece of wood and then place a screw or nail in the center of the Sharpie mark. Tap the
screw several times with a hammer to create an indentation in the metal.

![Tapping the screw into the rod](landing_gear_drilling_7.jpg)

Use the 1/16" bit to drill a starter hole. The indentation you created will keep the bit
from slipping around. This drill bit is very fragile so don't use too much force.

![Drilling 1/16" hole in rod](landing_gear_drilling_8.jpg)

Now use the 1/8" drill bit to enlarge the hole. This will be the final size necessary
for our M3 22mm screws.

![Drilling 1/8" hole in rod](landing_gear_drilling_9.jpg)

Place the rod back into the mount make sure it's all the way in. Slide a 22mm screw
through the mount and into the hole you just drilled. Make sure everything fits well and
then mark the other side with your Sharpie.

![Marking other side of rod for drilling](landing_gear_drilling_11.jpg)

Repeat the tapping and drilling process for the other side of the rod. Once that's
complete place the rod back into the mount, slide the 22mm screw all the way through,
and secure the rod with a lock nut.

![Screwing landing gear into the mount](landing_gear_drilling_12.jpg)

Once all four rods are mounted we will proceed to attaching the landing gear braces
which provide extra support.

![Landing gear securely mounted](landing_gear_drilling_13.jpg)

## Landing Gear Brace Mounting

The landing brace provides additional support by securing the rod to the bottom
accessory plate. Use two 8mm screws and lock nuts as shown in the photos below. Repeat
this process for all four legs.

![8mm screws through landing brace and accessory plate](landing_gear_brace_1.jpg)

![Lock nuts securing landing brace](landing_gear_brace_2.jpg)

![Landing brace installation complete](landing_gear_brace_3.jpg)

## Landing Gear Foot Mounting

There's a good chance that the feet of the landing gear will require press fitting onto
the rod. You can use a 3/8" drill bit to shave some of the plastic from the foot.

{{% alert title="Note" color="note" %}} The foot has a slight angle to it. Be sure to
rotate it so the bottom of the foot is flush with the floor. {{% /alert %}}

If the foot is loose feel free to use a drop of hot glue to hold it in place.

![Applying hot glue to landing gear foot](landing_gear_foot_1.jpg)

Repeat the process for all four feet.

![Landing gear feet installed](landing_gear_foot_2.jpg)

{{% alert title="Congrats!" color="success" %}} You have completed the first part of the
build process! Let's move to the next section to gain a solid understanding of battery
management. {{% /alert %}}
